One of the problems of GoRoutine and
threading in general is how to
communicate data between threads.
So I have one goroutine that wanna send a
message to the other goroutine that can be
the main goroutine or other goroutine.
It doesn't matter, how we communicate
data, using like local variables,
in this case known as package
variables is not a good idea.
Because you need to lock and lock you
can do that, but it's not a good idea.
So we have something known as channels.
That sounds scary, sounds powerful,
but it's actually pretty simple.
So a channel is kind of
a special type of variable.
So we have a slices we have structures,
we have channels, okay.
The channel is a wrapper
over another value.
It can be a string, it can be a text,
it can be a workshop, anything.
And a routine can define a value for
that channel, and
other routine can wait for a value,
so it's a listener for a value.
And waiting for the value means that
you are going to sleep the thread until
the value is available.
So it's kind of a listener and it will
keep the other routine waiting until
the value is set through the channel.
Make sense?
Channels can be buffer or not, we will see
what that means, but let's see a channel,
pretty simple.
So how do you set up a channel?
Well, it's a variable with the name m1.
You say chan space and
the value inside the channel, that's all.
And then you construct the channel
with make in the constructor.
You make a new channel of a string.
And how do you write in the channel,
with an arrow, by the way, the arrow is,
you don't need to look for
the unique code character for the arrow.
Okay, that's because that's a new font,
modern code font sizes
are using ligatures.
So actually,
it's the less than character and hyphen.
So you use that and
you are saving the message.
And someone else can wait for the message
using this syntax, it feels weird.
So let's see this here.
For example, I could instead of sleeping
here, I could create a channel.
Let's create a channel only for
that one just to keep this simple for now.
So I can create the channel.
How to create the channel is a variable?
Let's call it channel.
It's a channel that will send a bool or
a string or something like that, okay?
So I'm creating a channel, it's
complaining because I'm not using it yet.
But let's say that we
can receive the channel.
So we receive the channel,
it's a channel of string, okay.
So now I can pass the channel and it's not
going to complete it, I'm not using it.
So we create the channel and
it's like a pipe, okay?
So I'm sending you, we are going
to talk about this pipeline, okay?
This is a pipeline and we're going to
communicate through this pipeline.
So then, from here, for
example, when the four ends,
you can send a message to the channel,
how?
You don't say channel equals and
you pass a message like done.
No, it's not equals.
You use this operator, the arrow you are
sending data through the channel, okay?
On the other hand, so on the main thread.
So if I leave the things like this,
we know that the app ends immediately.
So we need to wait for
something, does it make sense?
So we are going to wait for, The channel.
Now what?
In this case,
you can see that the channel.
So here the channel is at
the left of the arrow.
We are sending data to the panel.
Now the channel is at
the right of the arrow.
In this case we are waiting for
data from the channel, and
the thread will wait there
until the channel finishes.
In this case, with this code,
I'm not actually receiving the value, but
you can see it's working now.
So the main thread, it's waiting for then
it's complaining probably because I'm not
yeah it received the channel but
I'm not using it.
So I can save the value, I can print
the value I can even print line the value.
It feels weird to see that there but
it's okay,
I can also create like
another response and
say that the response is going to wait for
that and
then I'm going to put
in line the response.
And what's the response, the string.
So you can use channels, for
two goals, you can send and
receive data between GoRoutines.
And you can use it also for
one routine to wait for another routine to
do something as some kind of an event
listener between GoRoutines.
That make sense?
So it's not difficult, I mean,
it's a really powerful concept
is premise index point of view.
You need to try it and test it and
do a lot of exercises but
it's actually pretty simple and
pretty powerful.
I mean, I'm not sure if any of you have
ever experienced coding with threadings
that it's typically a problem blocking,
the maphrose it's here, there,
it's really complicated to send data,
to know when the other thread ends.
So this is starting from scratch,
fresh, and it's pretty simple.
>> Do the channels work just
within the same package, or
can they be passed
between the two packages?
>> It's just a variable.
So it's a kind of variable.
So if you can pass a variable,
you can pass a channel.
>> And I'm not sure if there's any
reason you would wanna lock it down so
that it's like read only, or yeah,
I guess then it wouldn't be a channel,
it would just be a variable.
>> Yeah, you don't have like, yeah, if you
want like security, actually, if anyone
has the channel, it can read for the
channel or write content to the channel.
You can wrap a channel in your
own type if you want and yeah,
I don't think you need that.
But the last thing that I
have is on channels for
now before creating a very
project that uses this,
is that you can create a buffer,
a buffer channel.
So in this case, the buffer
channel has a second argument but
you can express how many of those values
you wanna send over the channel, okay.
And then you can even in this case,
I'm sending two messages at the same time,
even if no one is listening.
When he said buffer channel,
it's Casa buffer.
Then when any when someone
gets something from there, so
it's like when you have some places in the
city where you can like give a book for
free and when you end you can return
the books and stuff like that.
So you go there you can see there
is a book you get one and if not,
you will wait there until someone
gets a book into the table.
So actually, it's a buffer.
So in this case, if one Go routine
is putting messages there and
no one is listening, they're okay,
they will be buffered.
And at some point, the other GoRoutine
will start reading the messages, and
they will start pulling
them from the buffer.
And if you pull one from the buffer,
and there is no value, it will wait,
they're sitting waiting for the value.
So we've been working with
channels remember and Go routines.
Remember just a GoRoutine is the simple
way that go has to create threads,
and open threads and the channel is
one way that we have to send and
receive data between GoRoutines.
So one of the problems of channels is and
GoRoutines in general is
we've seen that When we, for
some reason, stop the main Goroutine,
everything stops.
And we can get into some deadlocks.
So to avoid that, we have to close all
the channels before ending the program.
There is a close global function,
so we can pass a channel and
it will close the channel, so
we are kind of good citizens with that.
However, sometimes it's not easy
to know when to close the channel,
so when everything is finishing.
So, to solve that problem,
we are going to create a new project, and
in that project we will start
working also with HTTP.
So we're gonna start first reading web
services or reading data from the web.
And we're going to use that example also
to see another way to work with routines,
or to control routines,
that is called weight group.
That is going to help us with that
problem with a deadlock problem.